All right, so another super useful thing to be able to do with dates and times is to basically do math
on them, if you will.
And I don't mean kind of like where we did earlier, where we did like the Plus, although, I mean,
that's super useful, too.
I mean, taking two dates or two times or two local date times and adding or subtracting them.
So one of the really cool things, let's just let's see here where where do we want to do this?
Let's take these two local dates.
First of all, and let's make them different.
So I don't know.
Let's make this second one, 2002 and June.
That's fine.
Yeah, 2002 and June.
So let's say that we wanted to find out how much time had elapsed between date one and date two.
Right?
So for those types of operations, there are two other classes that have been included in the Java eight
date time API.
One of them is for measuring differences in terms of days, weeks, months and years.
So kind of bigger timeframes.
And that is the period that we already kind of took a little peek at.
And the other class for doing similar things is duration.
And that's for measuring periods of time, like seconds in nanoseconds things of that sort.
All right.
So first, let's take a look at the period.
So if we want to find out the amount of time elapsed between the two and the one, we can start with
a period and then we will use one of its methods, such as between.
And now we can just give it these two dates so we can say the two comma one, for example.
And I guess let's just go ahead and print that out and see what we get.
So if we run that, we get P minus two y minus five, then so this doesn't just give us like a simple
number or a floating point number or something like that.
Instead, it actually tries to give us a fairly precise and accurate answer by returning an object of
this type period.
In this case, the case of the period object itself contains the years, the weeks, months, days,
et cetera, that have transpired between any two given dates.
Now the hyphens here indicate that the numbers are negative, and that just has to do with the order
in which I put these values in.
So if I flip these around to D1 and D2, because actually the first argument is meant to be the starting
point or the earlier date, and then the second argument is meant to be the later date.
And I'll run that again, OK?
And so now we get the same answer, essentially, but without the minus sign.
So two years, five months now, if I make a difference in the number of days also like I will put a
10 there.
So let's see what we get now.
All right, so now we get two years, five months and nine days now we can actually extract out any
parts of this period as well so that we could format it in a nice answer.
So for example, if I change this print line to a print f and we use a formatted string here, we can
say that the difference between those two dates is percent d years comma percent the months.
Comma percent the days.
Now what I would probably want to do if I'm going this route is I'd probably want to extract out this
whole entire expression here.
Otherwise, I'll have to duplicate it, you'll see what I mean and just a second.
So I'm going to extract that out to a variable with my option Command V. Let's see, and I'll just call
it difference.
I should have called it diff, in fact.
Hold on.
I don't want to take that much diff.
OK.
And so now I need to extract out the years so I can reference the diff, which is the period diff die,
get years comma death.
See what I'm doing here.
Default.
Get months comma, death dot.
Get days.
So if I had not extracted out the the diff variable, I would have been repeating this entire expression
and that would have caused this.
Between method to get executed each time also.
So that would not have been very efficient code.
Right.
So that's why I extracted that out.
And so now if I run this.
There we go, so we get two years, five months, nine days.
So super convenient method, and we're actually probably going to play around with that a little bit
more in a little exercise that I'm going to put together for a little bit of the fun that we're having
here with the date time stuff.
All right.
So then for a time like these local times up here, we can use the duration, class duration talked
between.
So it's the same basic, you know, pattern here.
So I will do t one comma L2 like so and up, and I want to print that out.
And I always forget to put my new line character here so that it's not very readable.
So let's run that one more time.
Here we go.
So we get one second one s.
So let's make this a little more drastic now, so let's say.
Thirteen.
Fifty seven.
And I don't know.
Thirty nine.
OK.
Let's run that.
So now we get three hours, 27 minutes and 39 seconds.
OK, so that's what that that's what that is saying.
And of course, we can extract out any particular field just as we did with the period, so we can use
these two methods here.
Now these work a little bit differently in some ways.
So let's see what I mean here.
So if we call, let's see two hours.
This one here, let's see what that returns.
So that returns three.
And then there was another version of that two hours part.
Let's see what that does.
All right.
So what's the difference between these two?
Well, if we take a look at the Java doc, the two hours part method simply gives us back the actual
number for the hours that we were receiving in the original duration object itself when we just called
to string on the duration itself.
And we got back that formatted thing.
This is just returning back the hours portion of that, whereas the two hours method, if we take a
look at its Java doc, this actually just takes the total number of seconds for the entire duration
and divides it by 3600 being the number of seconds in an hour.
So there are some subtleties there in the differences between these two versions of very similar methods.
And then for each part of the duration, there's an accompanying version of these, as you may have
seen already.
So there's a two hours and we can look here.
There's a two days to Milly's and then variations of those that give us back the parts as well.
So lots of ways to slice and dice and parse out the the data for these durations.
But as I said before, periods are four days up and then durations are meant for generally speaking,
smaller units of time.
Though you will see that we do have the ability to extract out days here, but I don't think they go
any higher than that.
No, they don't.
So they don't go any higher than that.